>> James Halliday: So here's another
fun command, it's called curl.
So curl will take any url, so
here's the project Gutenberg from Moby
Dick that I've been using for my example.
You can get it from the notes or
if someone could paste it into
the chat that would be handy.
>> Speaker 2: I just did and
I was playing with this and
I had to add a dash dash compressed
flag cuz it was coming back gzipped.
>> James Halliday: Yeah.
Well,
there is another command
that we can do with a pike
that might even be a better example,
but, yeah, okay.
I think when I last did this workshop
it wasn't gzipped by default.
So anyway, if we do curl with the url,
what the curl command does
is it loads the url and
it prints the contents to standard
out before whatever URL you've done.
And I recommend to use the dash -s
flag with curl because by default,
curl prints a progress bar that can
kind of get in your way sometimes.
So, if I do if I do curl -s and
give it a URL,
like a text file, or whatever kind of file
that you want, then it's going to print
the contents to standard out,
which happens to be compressed with gzip.
So there's a program that should be
already installed on your system
called gunzip.
All right, so if you
happen to have done the curl command and
your terminal looks so weird like this,
and if you type and it looks like
gibberish, you can fix it by typing reset.
And now you're terminal should be better.
Okay, so there's a program called gunzip,
which is spelled like this.
And that will read from standard input,
g-zipped, compressed data.
And it will write uncompressed
data to standard out.
So we can combine these existing
tools to do something that we want.
So here we go.
And now I see the uncompressed output.
Pretty sweet.
All right,
>> James Halliday: So
we can do some other fun things.
I'm gonna cover this more in
the regular expression section later.
But here I have a little
program using sed,
which replaces all
whitespace with new lines.
So if there's something like a space,
it's gonna turn that into a new line.
And this is really useful because
it means that every word will be
on its own lines so we can start to do
things like a filter those lines or
a count the number lines, for example.
So if I add that a little bit at the end,
>> James Halliday: at the end of
my program, then now,
I see every word gets its own line.
And I can use another program called
grep that's gonna filter the output.
So suppose that I only wanna
see lines that contain whale.
It's Moby Dick so
of course there's a lot of them.
Also sometimes,
whale is at the beginning of a sentence.
So like a capital W.
There is an other flag that you can
pass to grep that does case insensitive
matching, -i,
which you can put in the middle or
you can put it at the end because
the order doesn't matter.
So if I want to see all of the instances
of the word whale, lowercase or
uppercase can do, we curl this text file,
which is compressed.
Then we gunzip it, and then we turn
all of the whitespace into new lines,
so that every word is on it's own line.
And then we search for all of the lines
that contain the word whale, like that.
And now we can pipe that
to the wc -l command to
know how many times in Mobby Dick
the word whale appears,
which happens to be 1,692.
So you can answer question like this
about files just by kind of composing
all of these very small tools that
kind of do one thing and do it well.
Again, I'll get more into how this works
in the regular expression section but
It's not just whale, but
also words like whaling,
and different kinds of verbs
that include the word whales.
So if we wanna see everything
that matches whale,
or whaling,
we can use this group right here.
And the pipe character inside of
the string there means either an e or ing.
>> James Halliday: And so, whoa.
All right, and you have to give grep
the capital E command if you don't want to
back space the parentheses.
Again I'll get more into how that all
works in the regular expression section.
So there are actually 1,823 instances
of whale words in Moby Dick,
which is a fun question that we
can answer with our command line
pipeline here, which is a little
program that counts whales.
>> James Halliday: Yeah, so we can use
some of the other stuff that we just
talked about as well.
So for example, maybe we wanna, that's
really good pieces of information we wanna
save for later so what we can also do is
we could use the redirect character so
we're gonna use > to write
the whale counts to a file.
We'll call it whale-count.txt.
And so now,
we have that information for later.
>> James Halliday: And you can combine and
remix all of these sorts of pieces.
So I think that should give you
a lot to play with hopefully.
I've got a little breakdown here of
what every piece does just to kind of
review and then hopefully
everyone can get a chance to
play around with some of these commands
because they're really fun, I think.
So curl -s, again,
fetches Moby Dick from Project Gutenberg.
It so happens that you get compressed
output to your terminal so
you can pipe that to the gunzip commands,
which reads from standard in and
prints the uncompressed
text to standard out.
Then we have this little program here
that runs sed which does substitutions.
So in this case /S means non,
or no, sorry,
/ s means white space characters and
+ means one or
more white space characters,
so that's what it matches.
It replaces one or more white space
characters with a single new line.
And the g means it does that for
every whitespace character that it finds,
not just the first one.
So if you want to play around with this
little sed thingie, you can sort of
see what this program does in isolation
by typing in some data with echo.
So here I have just some one two three,
whatever.
And I can see that in fact
it works like I expect.
That's a really nice thing about pipelines
in Unix is that you can always test
what every piece does in isolation
before building something really big and
complicated.
So, that's what this little
piece of our pipeline does.
There's also grep which
filters the output.
So remember before we had all
of the words in Moby Dick and
now if we put this rep piece
on the end of our pipeline,
we only see words with whale in them.
>> James Halliday: And then finally,
wc -l will count the number
of lines in the output.
So, we can count the number
of times that whale appears.